README.md, before:

# Harry's Restaurant
Harry's Restaurant is a full-stack, responsive website built for a fictional Restaurant for educational purposes only.

It allows the user to create an account so they can make a booking at table at the restaurant. Users can also browse the menu, letting them veiw the delicious dishes that are on offer.

## Agile Methodology
The plan for this project was carried out using Agile Methodology. GitHub Issues were used to record the User Stories. These were made up of all the key functionality that a user would expect from a Restaurant website.

Each Each User Story contains Acceptance Criteria and Tasks which I sometimes had to adjust during the process, as I wasn't yet sure what was required to achieve the Acceptance Criteria.

To aid with prioritisation, I used The MoSCoW Method, which consisted of classifying each User Story as a 'Must Have', 'Should Have' or 'Could Have'. Some 'Could Have's didn't make it into the project and were left in the Backlog for a future iteration. It is important to note here, that by writing only enough User Stories to reach the Minimum Viable Product(MVP), 'Won't Have' was not included currently as a category.

To summarise, I found using the Agile Methodology of great benefit as it helped me to better organise, prioritise and plan the development of my project. Although I didn't give myself a specific duration for each iteration, it greatly helped my time management. I also felt sense of achievement, ticking off the Tasks while working on a User Story and placing it in the 'Done' column when it was completed.

## User Experience

### Strategy / Site Objectives
Harry's Restaurant aims to create an inviting and welcoming impression that makes it easy for people and their families and friends to enjoy a quality meal together.

It provides a simple way for people to book a table and organise a nice get-together for a special occasion.

The target audience aimed towards people aged 18 years+, however anyone is welcome to Harry's Restaurant.

### Scope / User Stories

* **First Time Visitor Goals**
    * As a first time user, I want to be about to sign up to an account to have access to other features such as making a booking.
    * As a first time user, I want to be able to view the menu so that I can so what food is available.
            
* **Returning Visitor Goals**            
    * As a returning visitor, I would like to see if there are any changes to the menu.
    * As a returning visitor, I would like to know what if there are any changes to the opening times.
    * As a returning visitor, I would like to know any updates on the contact details.
    * As a returning Visitor, I would like to be able to find links to the social media pages of the restaurant.

* **Authenticated User Goals**
    * As an authenticated user, I want to be able to book a table at the restaurant to reserve a space.
    * As an authenticated user, I want to be able to make changes to my reservation such as the date or the time or number of people attending.
    * As an authenticated, user I want to be able to view all of the bookings that I have made to easily manage them
    * As an authenticated user, I would like to be able to cancel any bookings that I have made.

### Structure / Designs Choices

The website is simple to use and consistent within its structure. The website was designed to be responsive on screens from 375px and above, making it great ti use from mobile to desktop.

For desktop users the navigation bar shows the 'Harry's Restaurant' logo and links to pages for 'Home', 'Bookings', 'Menu' and 'Logout' (for authenticated users) or 'Sign up' and 'Login' pages (for unauthenticated users). For users on a screen size of 767px or below the navigation bar will collapse down and be accessible via a burger button to save screen space and a more polished appearance. The navigation bar is repeated across all pages on the site, allowing for easy navigation.

The Footer displays social media links which open in a separate tab for ease of use. It also displays the restaurants's address, the opening hours and other contact details. The footer is also repeated across all pages to keep the design uniform and for ease of access.

The Home Page clearly indicates the purpose of the site with a jumbotron which will urge users to sign up (for unauthenticated users) or book a table (for authenticated users). Below is a description of the restaurant which describes the style of cuisine on offer and an 'Our Story' section, which gives insight to the orgins of the restaurant and its mission.

The Bookings page allow users to easily see all of there bookings that have been made and clearly display the details of the booking. Users can also edit and cancel any of their bookings as well as add a new booking from this page. Users can also click the booking number of any booking to see the details of that particular booking.

The Menu page clearly shows the user what food the restaurant has on offer. the dishes are broken down in categories of Starters, Mains and Deserts.

The Sign up / Login pages are clear and and display the fields in a familiar format to the user.

#### Database Schema

One custom model has been implemented for this project: Reservation.

![This is an image of my Entity Relatated Diagram](readme_images/harrys_restaurant_erd.jpeg)

### Skeleton / Wireframes

Using wireframes greatly aided the planning process and allowed me to have a clear direction I want the structure of the project to go. I only completed wireframes for the Home and Booking pages as these were the only pages, that I felt, that need attention to their structure. The other pages are very basic and did not need much planning if any at all.

[Click here to view the home page wireframe](readme_images/harrys_restaurant_home_wf.pdf)

[Click here to view the bookings page wireframe](readme_images/harrys_restaurant_bookings_wf.pdf)

> [!NOTE]
> Wireframes are not coming out quite as planned but the primary structure is still visible.

### Surface

## Feautures

### Existing Features

### Future Features

## Technologies Used

## Testing

## Deployment

### Forking the Github repository

### Creating a local clone

## Credits

### Code

## Acknowledgements

Commit message:

Added content to the 'Surface' section of the read me file

README.md, after:

# Harry's Restaurant
Harry's Restaurant is a full-stack, responsive website built for a fictional Restaurant for educational purposes only.

It allows the user to create an account so they can make a booking at table at the restaurant. Users can also browse the menu, letting them veiw the delicious dishes that are on offer.

## Agile Methodology
The plan for this project was carried out using Agile Methodology. GitHub Issues were used to record the User Stories. These were made up of all the key functionality that a user would expect from a Restaurant website.

Each Each User Story contains Acceptance Criteria and Tasks which I sometimes had to adjust during the process, as I wasn't yet sure what was required to achieve the Acceptance Criteria.

To aid with prioritisation, I used The MoSCoW Method, which consisted of classifying each User Story as a 'Must Have', 'Should Have' or 'Could Have'. Some 'Could Have's didn't make it into the project and were left in the Backlog for a future iteration. It is important to note here, that by writing only enough User Stories to reach the Minimum Viable Product(MVP), 'Won't Have' was not included currently as a category.

To summarise, I found using the Agile Methodology of great benefit as it helped me to better organise, prioritise and plan the development of my project. Although I didn't give myself a specific duration for each iteration, it greatly helped my time management. I also felt sense of achievement, ticking off the Tasks while working on a User Story and placing it in the 'Done' column when it was completed.

## User Experience

### Strategy / Site Objectives
Harry's Restaurant aims to create an inviting and welcoming impression that makes it easy for people and their families and friends to enjoy a quality meal together.

It provides a simple way for people to book a table and organise a nice get-together for a special occasion.

The target audience aimed towards people aged 18 years+, however anyone is welcome to Harry's Restaurant.

### Scope / User Stories

* **First Time Visitor Goals**
    * As a first time user, I want to be about to sign up to an account to have access to other features such as making a booking.
    * As a first time user, I want to be able to view the menu so that I can so what food is available.
            
* **Returning Visitor Goals**            
    * As a returning visitor, I would like to see if there are any changes to the menu.
    * As a returning visitor, I would like to know what if there are any changes to the opening times.
    * As a returning visitor, I would like to know any updates on the contact details.
    * As a returning Visitor, I would like to be able to find links to the social media pages of the restaurant.

* **Authenticated User Goals**
    * As an authenticated user, I want to be able to book a table at the restaurant to reserve a space.
    * As an authenticated user, I want to be able to make changes to my reservation such as the date or the time or number of people attending.
    * As an authenticated, user I want to be able to view all of the bookings that I have made to easily manage them
    * As an authenticated user, I would like to be able to cancel any bookings that I have made.

### Structure / Designs Choices

The website is simple to use and consistent within its structure. The website was designed to be responsive on screens from 375px and above, making it great ti use from mobile to desktop.

For desktop users the navigation bar shows the 'Harry's Restaurant' logo and links to pages for 'Home', 'Bookings', 'Menu' and 'Logout' (for authenticated users) or 'Sign up' and 'Login' pages (for unauthenticated users). For users on a screen size of 767px or below the navigation bar will collapse down and be accessible via a burger button to save screen space and a more polished appearance. The navigation bar is repeated across all pages on the site, allowing for easy navigation.

The Footer displays social media links which open in a separate tab for ease of use. It also displays the restaurants's address, the opening hours and other contact details. The footer is also repeated across all pages to keep the design uniform and for ease of access.

The Home Page clearly indicates the purpose of the site with a jumbotron which will urge users to sign up (for unauthenticated users) or book a table (for authenticated users). Below is a description of the restaurant which describes the style of cuisine on offer and an 'Our Story' section, which gives insight to the orgins of the restaurant and its mission.

The Bookings page allow users to easily see all of there bookings that have been made and clearly display the details of the booking. Users can also edit and cancel any of their bookings as well as add a new booking from this page. Users can also click the booking number of any booking to see the details of that particular booking.

The Menu page clearly shows the user what food the restaurant has on offer. the dishes are broken down in categories of Starters, Mains and Deserts.

The Sign up / Login pages are clear and and display the fields in a familiar format to the user.

#### Database Schema

One custom model has been implemented for this project: Reservation.

![This is an image of my Entity Relatated Diagram](readme_images/harrys_restaurant_erd.jpeg)

### Skeleton / Wireframes

Using wireframes greatly aided the planning process and allowed me to have a clear direction I want the structure of the project to go. I only completed wireframes for the Home and Booking pages as these were the only pages, that I felt, that need attention to their structure. The other pages are very basic and did not need much planning if any at all.

[Click here to view the home page wireframe](readme_images/harrys_restaurant_home_wf.pdf)

[Click here to view the bookings page wireframe](readme_images/harrys_restaurant_bookings_wf.pdf)

> [!NOTE]
> Wireframes are not coming out quite as planned but the primary structure is still visible.

### Surface

#### Colour Scheme

The colour scheme that I used was very monochromatic, with splashes of colour for items of interest such as buttons or links.

The primary background colour is White with black text for easy readablility. The jumbotron used on the home page is a contrast to this colour scheme, which has a black background and white text, to indicate the start and end of a new section.

#### Typography


The two fonts I used for this project were EB Garamond and Roboto. EB Garamond was used for the main headings of the site and Roboto was used for the main body of text. EB Garamond is a serif based font while Roboto is a sans-serif which enabled them to offer a good contrast and compliment eachother well while still being easily readable.
EB Garamond serif

Roboto sans-serif
## Feautures

### Existing Features

### Future Features

## Technologies Used

## Testing

## Deployment

### Forking the Github repository

### Creating a local clone

## Credits

### Code

## Acknowledgements
